[Music]
Hey everyone, welcome to Served. I'm
Andy, producer Mike in the house. Techie
Sean also with us. This week we are
going to be celebrating
uh my good friends Bob and Mike Brian.
Uh they came on for a really really what
I thought was a hilarious interview with
a million viral moments. And when those
two get together and and start
storytelling, uh, you know, the various
parts of their, you know, illustrious
careers where they became the best
doubles team of all time, but have this
sibling twin thing, which makes magic on
the court and they're probably a little
too close sometimes, but like just
always kind of went about things the
right way. Anyway, so we did an
interview with them. They were gracious
enough to come on this show. I you know
I don't 15 16 months ago when nobody was
really listening. Um I I thought the
show was going to be like go nuts and it
would just be to me it would be criminal
to have this this footage of them and
the stories that they've told and not
kind of revisit that interview uh with
their upcoming induction into the Hall
of Fame and well-deserved uh induction
into the Hall of Fame. So Mike did he
took what did you do? You took Pete what
what did you do? Oh, well, we chopped it
up a little bit. We did kind of a best
of clip. But before we get to that,
Andy, they the Brian Brothers actually
posted a clip this morning. Uh, it's
setting up the August 22 Hall of Fame
celebrity proclass that I think you're
you're facing and squaring off against
them and I think Kim's even involved in
it. Uh, but but Sean, play play Andy
that clip.
>> Andy, what's up? Bob Mike Bryan here
from Wimbledon. We're already getting
ready for you, man. We're we're on the
grass here. We'll see you in Newport
soon, man. Um, stretch out. Do whatever
you got to do. Don't serve it to my
backhand and I'm not going to serve it
to your forehand and keep your servo
under 140, man. It's grass. Chill out.
Okay.
>> You're going to hurt somebody, aren't
you?
>> Oh god. So, they've been mentioning that
I was maybe have to play I don't I don't
want to I didn't want to play them when
I was good at tennis. What a what a
nightmare that is
>> on grass. Gh.
>> Any any predictions?
>> Pain for me. I mean,
it's like just
>> you're just folding already.
>> Well, it's just not. It's kind of
[__] if you think about it because
>> No, it is. Give me a second here. Is
it's kind of [__] because it's like
they're obviously the two best players
on the court. They still play every
tournament. Like, oh, here we are this
video fresh from Wimbledon where we won
[__] five matches.
Like, they never stopped playing tennis.
Like, you know, so I don't know. Like
and but also normally the way it works
in these things is if you have two
people who are by far the best players
who keep playing and listen their skill
set was never running sideline to
sideline like they're you know they got
those little little little legs you know
those little tiny legs and so it's like
it's never as if they were going
sideline to sideline so like their skill
set tracks like I can't serve anymore my
shoulder's broken I wasn't really good
at anything besides that so normally
in in that scenario, you split up the
best two players, but because they're
twins, and because they're like
because they're like a package deal, all
of a sudden, I don't Do I Do I have a
partner? Am I just playing oneon-one?
How How bad is this going to get? Do we
have any more details?
>> Uh, who who else is playing? Sean, it's
I I saw Kim Glers's on on the roster and
and uh I I think you'll I think he'll be
okay. I think he'll be in good hands.
>> Yeah,
>> I mean, I'll take Kim. No problem.
We'll put uh we'll put details in the
show descriptions. Go click the link. Go
check it out. If you guys are going to
be up in Newport, grab some tickets.
It's going to be Friday, August 22nd,
the Hall of Fame Celebrity Pro Classic.
I for one am super pumped I'm going to
be there to see you get your ass kicked.
>> Oh my dude. Okay, so something else just
dropped for me and I don't I'm sure
they've announced this. I don't know if
they have. And if they haven't,
surprise. Um
I have to play Thursday night in Ash for
that
>> like has been night at um
>> the stars. It's
>> so wait a minute. I have to play I'm
>> quality.
>> I'm I'm playing Thursday night.
I haven't hit a serve in a year. I'm
playing Thursday night and then I have
to play Friday. Is it like I have to get
to Newport somehow? Like
>> can we convert Can we convert it to like
a dingles match? Can we convert the
Should we lobby for that?
>> Great. Anything that I don't have to
serve is so I have to play Thursday
night and then I'm gonna go like Friday
day.
>> I didn't make your schedule.
>> Don't be upset with me.
>> I'm not upset with you. I'm I'm upset
with me. Like I just I thought it was a
Saturday thing. I didn't I thought I
>> two live shows. We have We have our
We'll have our draw special on the 21st
from outside Arthur Ash before the uh
Stars event and then we will have our
Hall of Fame special on that Saturday.
So,
>> well, the show has a lot to do.
>> That's fine. The shows I like working. I
I like working. It's just that the
shows, believe it or not, Mike, they
don't really stress me out physically
that much. I'm not really worried about
my shoulder getting through a podcast.
>> So, oh, this is
>> We're not podcasting correctly then.
>> This is
Well, we we probably aren't podcasting
correctly, but like this is
>> we're definitely not podcasting
correctly.
>> What a what a nightmare. But help me set
the stage for this though. Uh, so when
you guys were playing Davis Cup and you
were supposed to play a Juan Carlos
Ferrer, but then he got subbed out. Can
you set the stage on year and where this
is and what that is and and and then let
it let's lay out for them.
>> I'll I'll I'll I'll run you through it
if you can say Ferrero properly.
>> Yeah.
>> Ferrero. Jere Yeah. Jeremy Ferrara. You
turned him into like a cast member of
Entourage.
>> Chalk it up.
>> Yeah. So civil I mean listen I I joke
with the Brian I talk about what a
nightmare it is to play doubles against
that that is all of that is true and
also my life was never better than when
we were on the Davis Cup squad together
and I knew that there was no chance I
had to play Saturday they were going to
win pretty much every time. Uh but yeah
the general sentiment this is how stupid
we were. The general sentiment in the
locker room was, "Oh no, you know,
Ferrerero
won the French Open the year before, has
been number one in the world. What a
nightmare." They sub in this kid Nadal
who I had beaten pretty handily at the
US Open like two months earlier an hour
before the match and we're all, if this
is the clip, I can't remember, but we're
all going, "Oh, this is this is great. I
cannot believe these idiots actually are
playing this guy Nadal on Red Clay." Hey
gosh, we really have them here. Uh, but
anyways, the rest of clips, they're the
best. They're hilarious when they, you
know, let the curtain down and talk
about the inner workings of not only
being brothers, but being the best
doubles team in the world. They always
present really well, but there are
moments of tension that we would laugh
about behind the scenes forever in a day
because as much as they look alike, they
are very, very different personalities.
But, uh, I always felt extremely honored
uh, to be their friend. I can't wait to
support them uh during the induction and
uh always have time for some Brian
Brothers stories. And with that, let's
get to some storytelling with the Brian
Bros. Bob and Mike. Brian agreed to come
on the show. I looked at Mike and I
said, "Let's let it rip, Tater Chip.
Let's go." Uh Bob and Mike, how you guys
doing?
>> Good. How you doing, Andy? Uh
>> nice to see this podcast become a
reality. I know you were were talking
about it in Charlotte. uh few months ago
and I was waiting to text you and say,
"Hey, this is a great podcast." Cuz I
knew you would ask us to be on. So, I
was waiting until we were both ready uh
for this for this to happen.
>> Yeah. I I think uh I I Mikey, correct me
if I'm wrong if my suspicion of of Bob
is accurate. I think he was waiting to
see if we got cancelled in the first
three weeks.
>> Is is that a more accurate
representation?
>> You're you're you're rocking and
rolling. Uh, but yeah, we had a fun time
in Charlotte in December for your
foundation and we told a few stories at
your dinner and you're like, uh, I think
I'm going to start a podcast and you got
to let it rip.
>> Let it rip, tater chip. Um, I first saw
you guys and you all know this cuz we've
talked about it many times, but I first
saw you all there. I remember being in
Austin, Texas. I was probably like seven
or eight years old. Andy, we weren't
taking we didn't even take you serious.
You know, John, your big your big bro,
was on the national team. We looked up
to him. He was kind of like our junior
idol, him and Goldstein, and you were
just a little tag along. You were
playing mini tennis on the sidewalk
there in Austin. And, you know, we
didn't even take you serious until you
hit Sampath with that that body serve at
Kiscane.
And then it was uh then you kind of
moved into the spotlight. But Johnny, I
mean, he was a legend at Georgia. We
actually played against him in in two
NCAA finals. And um uh
>> you played him you played him in the
what round you Bob you beat so my older
brother John who's a two-time NCA coach
of the year? Uh great coach was a good
junior was on the national team kind of
in and around when when when Bob were
there. Uh uh and then you Bob you beat
him in what round of the NCA singles?
Semis.
>> That was the greatest win of my whole
career. I beat him in Athens in the
semis. Uh beating a legend John Rodic on
his home court. Um, definitely there
wasn't anything better than that for me
in my singles career.
>> Yeah, you that was you could have died.
>> Playing the Bulldogs, playing the
Bulldogs in Georgia actually got us
ready for Davis Cup because that's the
toughest environment in sports. We we
got to play that team. Um, and the dogs
are barking. They're they're uh pouring
beer on our heads as we got balls um
yelling obscinities about our mom. You
know, that that's actually the most
intimidating atmosphere in in sports, I
would say.
>> Wait, wait, wait. Are you are you saying
that for effect? I mean, we played in
front of 30 some odd thousand people in
a a soccer stadium in Spain. You think
>> that was pretty intimidating? I mean, it
was dizzying to look up and see all the
Spanish fans in Sevilla. Yeah, that was
cool. But this when they're getting
personal and they're and they're talking
about your mom and you can understand
the language and these drunk fraternity
guys are just out for blood. You pull
your hat down and you try not to look up
because if you make eye contact with
these guys uh it's over. But that was
Yeah, that was crazy. Athens, Georgia.
Nothing like it. I wish the NCAA would
go back to to Athens. 6,500 barking
dogs. Nothing like it. I know that
there's pictures floating around of of
you guys at Davis Cup ties uh when
you're young. Uh changed my world. Uh I
saw the Dallas final in '92. Um I think
we've we've all been very outspoken
about uh the effect it had on us. Uh is
that effect the same? And is it do you
feel a big responsibility to kind of
make sure that Davis Cup has the same
impact as it as it had on us? And is
that possible now?
>> Yeah, that's the challenge, right? we're
we're missing some of those
opportunities to inspire those those
young kids that the next Andy Rodic you
were at the matches. We all saw uh these
young guys like Opela uh Francis Tfo
when they're little 11 12 year olds at
these Davis Cup matches. Um we're not
going to have a home tie here in the
States. It's going to be three years I
think u come next year. That that's a
lot of missed opportunities to you know
bring tennis to smaller markets. Yes.
but also inspire people like us. So,
yeah, I want to I want to keep Davis Cup
in the in the forefront. We we loved it.
I know we all had this shared goal. You
wanted that on your resume. We were
talking about it January 1st, all of us.
We didn't start stop talking about it
until we'd won the cup, honestly. And we
looked forward to these weeks. I mean,
look, we were playing poker. We all had
a great time um in the hotels hanging
out together, going out uh after the
matches, enjoying those wins. Our and
the atmospheres were insane, Andy. I
mean, we were playing in front of 15,000
fans. We had the F-16s flying over,
pyrochnics, the drum lines running out,
uh Darius Rucker singing the national
anthem, but um I think we have guys that
are committed to playing and and they
they want to win this cup. But yeah,
they're not talking about it right now.
I can I can guarantee you it's a little
different than when we were when we were
around.
>> I mean, we went to Sorry, sorry. We went
to um Croatia right after the US Open
and we went over there and we played at
a neutral site against these, you know,
great teams, right? Like Netherlands, we
played against Finland and Croatia and
there were five American fans and you
bring a guy over like Francis Tafa who
just played uh a night match on Arthur
Ash Stadium in front of 22,000 American
fans. So, it's really hard for these
guys to get up for it, and they know the
next week they're flying over to
Vancouver to play the Labor Cup. So,
it's it's a lot to ask um schedule-wise,
but also um you'd want these guys to be
in these atmospheres where they're it's
exciting. Um so, it's it's a little bit
different, and we got to bring that that
back to Davis Cup, I think.
>> H how does that how does that happen in
its current format or does it not happen
in its current format?
>> We got to get out of the group stage. We
take it to Malaga, hopefully get some
excitement in the press, bring over a
team of fans. We had those net heads
that would come over in hundreds, you
know, Sevilla,
>> like there was 27,500
Spanish fans, but we could always look
at our net heads,
>> you know, to go nuts for us. Um, dude,
that Sevilla, that that was incredible
because I remember that night, the
Thursday night before the match. We were
almost celebrating when they pulled out
Juan Carlos Ferrero, the French Open
champion, number whatever, two in the
world, and they were substituting in a
teenager named Raphael Nadal, who you I
think beat at the US Open 34 and 0 a
couple months before. We were all like,
"Oh my god, they're they're idiots. I
can't believe they're putting in Nadal."
>> Yeah. Veronica will never lose to Nadal
on Clay. That was dumb of them.
>> We thought we thought we had a chance
and then well Marty had that short
forehand against Moya and went for his I
think went for his head and the crowd
booed for like 30 minutes. That kind of
changed a little momentum and then
against Nadal. I felt like Nadal became
Nadal in that match in front of his home
fans. And you were you were so
disappointed that you had lost to the
greatest play court player of all time
that when we got home and we got our
check in the mail. It was like three
times as big. You sent us your you sent
us your prize money. I don't remember if
you realize or remember that you sent us
your money. You said give it to the
Brian. You know I didn't earn it. I mean
we kicked it back to your charity. But I
don't think you would have give given
away your prize money had you known this
guy would have won 14 French Opens.
Well, I can actually make you a very
honest man. Um, right now, uh, we played
them again in '08 after Rafa had won, I
think, four straight, uh, French Opens,
and I didn't send you guys [__] after
that one. I think I actually don't even
think I don't think Mike was there for
that one. So, he certainly wasn't
getting any money. Uh, I But I I wasn't
giving any money away after that one. I
felt like I earned my beating in '08,
whereas I let one slip and uh, and go
forward.
>> Yeah. I think you had one set that went
to 6'4 and you were we were like uh
celebrating that night. We're having a
couple drinks. You're like,
>> "Do you guys This is a side tangent, but
do you want to hear one of the most
depressing moments of my life real
quick?"
>> Sure.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So, you Bob was there uh or was it
was it Mike? Mike, you played with Did
you play that second one or It was Bob
and Marty.
>> I played with Marty Fish. Bob was having
his his firstborn child.
>> That's right. Okay. That's what it was.
>> And we played in the Plaza del Toro in
that bowl ring.
>> That's right. That's right. Um Yeah. And
so this it was the you guys won double.
You guys always won doubles. Didn't
matter you know who was playing with
what. Um it's like the undersold part is
like you guys could just play and it was
it was great. Um but in '08 I remember
the Sunday I was playing I lost in to
Ferrare in five sets the first day. I
think I was down two sets and then came
back and then lost. It was brutal. Um,
and then then the morning, so I wake up
the morning on Sunday in Spain and you
look out the window and you know you're
gonna play Nadal and Clay. So I kind of
like open like this and I look out and
it's gray and raining and I'm like,
"This sucks. This is a bad beat. Uh, I
do not need to be playing on him uh on
anything slower or muddier." So I go
warm up and then they have that like
live grainy feed into the locker room
where you can see like center court. So,
I had warmed up and then all of a sudden
I see a wheelbarrow going out onto the
court, right? I'm like, "What the what
the [__] is that wheelbarrow?" And a
shovel and some guy has a shovel and
he's just shoveling clay onto the court
and the other guy's patting it down. I'm
like, "So, the the rain, the general
goatness of him on clay, I felt like
half embarrassed because they were
paying so much attention to me for this
match when they really didn't need to. I
was going to go out and be a dumpster
fire anyways. It was a complete suicide
mission.
>> But th but those were the fun things
about the home and away. I mean, you
know, when you play on the road, they're
going to play us on the slowest
soupiest dirt. Uh I remember Belgium
like they threw dirt down into that that
indoor arena and the court wasn't even
hardened, you know? The the ball was
like an explosion. It was like that
Power Aid commercial that you did. The
ball would like stick in the court.
It was real. And I think we got a
fortunate call and I remember the PON,
our security guys, the brothers, you
know, running us out of there cuz they
were that whole place was going to come
down on us.
>> It was the single worst call I've ever
been the beneficiary of the one that
that that you're referencing. And I
remember walking up to like correct it
and I remember you all and Patrick
yelling at me, "Turn the [__] around. Go
back." So I ended up breaking and we got
Mike, producer Mike, like literally we
were playing. It's probably only 2500
people. It wasn't like the biggest
stadium ever, but it was like we were
going to be relegated and we win, but
they I mean they they called an overhead
out that was maybe
6 in inside the line. And I had
corrected a call earlier that year and
given a match away. And so I start
walking up and my entire bench just
starts yelling at me, "It's not about
you.
Move. Get back." So anyways, closing.
>> We we needed every point against that
little guy, Roas. He was a magician.
>> Poundforound.
>> Yes.
>> Poundforound. One of the best. Uh didn't
he win? He won the French Open in
doubles, too.
>> Yep. With Malise.
>> He He could stripe it, man. Anyways, we
held serve and we get trash thrown on us
as we're leaving. Like that they start
throwing things like I mean that was
that was that was a that was a weird
situation.
>> Davis Cup uh journey came full circle in
Portland. I still feel like that's the
highlight of our career. um winning the
Davis Cup at the Rose Garden in front of
a you know pack crowd. Um we played the
Russians. It was like a Rocky movie and
I I remember you got it done and James
got it done on the first day. So Bob and
I had the opportunity to clinch for the
country and uh when I was serving out
the match, you know, I looked over, I
saw how emotional you were on the on the
sideline. you're already crying and um
you know getting it done kind of the
elation we we piled up on the court took
it out late to the clubs you know had a
I think we had like a 400 a.m. morning
>> I remember you you tapped me on the
shoulder at like 4:00 a.m. Um, I think
you were drenched in sweat. You'd been
dancing all night and you said, "Hey,
uh, guess what? You're playing the dead
rubber tomorrow." There's
live on the tennis channel. You're
playing. And then I walk over. I see Bob
in the corner. I I tap him. I'm like,
"Guess what? You're playing the dead
rubber."
And And we had this big battle that
night. And And we had we actually ended
up calling my parents and and then they
voted. They're like, "Okay, Bob. Bob's
He's usually been the singles horse.
Bob's got to do it." And then I I uh I
think I pulled an all nighter with you.
Bob had to get some sleep and uh played
Andrea the next day.
>> So that went from the best night of my
life to the worst night of my life. Uh
you you guys threw me to the wolves the
next day. I uh
>> you might have had a few to too many to
drink. I don't think you could have
passed uh the breathalyzer test.
>> Oh, no. on Sunday to play that play that
match. I mean, we had that Davis Cup. I
remember we were filling it with booze.
Um
>> I'm sure I don't know what you mean.
>> I don't understand. Um
>> beer Olympics.
>> The Beer Olympics was good, too.
>> Remember the beer Olympics in Austin? I
remember that day.
>> I do remember. I remember all of my bad
decisions. Um I I Yeah, I'm I'm not
proud of this moment. I feel badly
talking to you now, Bob, especially
because you came on uh this podcast so
nicely.
I want you guys to talk about uh winning
the Olympics specifically in 2012. I
think it's fitting in an Olympic year,
but uh you all had done all of the
things. By 2012, it was kind of readily
accepted that you guys were either the
best doubles team ever or on your way to
becoming the best doubles team ever. So,
the only argument was about timing and
counting stats uh at that point. But you
hadn't won in 04, you hadn't won in 08.
So, talk about going into the 2012
Olympics and the pressure set with
knowing that this this could be a thing
that could potentially if you don't win
it this time, you know, 16 wasn't
guaranteed at that moment. 20 certainly
wasn't guaranteed at that moment. Talk
about you all going into that
tournament. Did you talk about it as
something different? Did you understand
the weight of it? What was that like?
And what were the kind of um I guess the
mental ramifications going into that
event versus, you know, a slam at that
point? Yeah, I mean 2012 we were 34
years old. Uh 35 years old when Andre
retired was ancient. But there's a sense
of urgency with the Olympics, right?
Tennis is always about the next
opportunity. If you don't win the French
Open, you got to crack at Wimbledon. You
know, this one, that one. Olympics is
different. You got to wait four years.
You know, you got to be top in your
country or you're not going. Um and and
everyone always asks us, "What would you
rather win? a grand slam or the
Olympics. I think for singles, you take
a grand slam. You know, you put yourself
in the history books. It really
validates everything you've done your
whole life. I've heard the number if you
win a grand slam is worth 30 million and
endorsements and this and that. It opens
the door to the Hall of Fame. But for
doubles, that's different. You know,
you're not you're not making headlines.
You're not playing on TV every day. A
lot of people don't know the doubles
players, but winning a gold medal kind
of takes you to that global audience.
Um, it's the trophy that everyone wants
to hold. I just did career day here at
my at my kids school and I brought the
gold medal. I passed it around. The kids
are freaking out holding it. It's like a
celebrity onto itself. So then, you
know, 34 years old, we went to London.
We It was There was a sense of urgency.
We had to win that gold. It all came
together. We won seven tiebreers during
that time. It was two out of three sets
on grass, doubles, small margins. We got
it. We played the French guys again in
the finals. And you know, it was one of
those moments, you know, there was no
tears on the metal stand. We were in
shock
and I think it was Cincinnati a few
weeks later that we were in our rental
car and we just started screaming. It
finally hit us. And I had the gold in my
racket bag. I carried it around in my
bag for like six months. brought it out
at bars. It was like a chick magnet, you
know, and
I I I I
for Mike for Mike cuz I was married.
Anyway,
>> Bob, I Bob, I remember your your your
gold medal. U it had so many scuffs on
it and it wasn't even a circle anymore.
You're handing it out to so many fans.
They were dropping it and it was
actually like almost a square and I kept
mine in at my house. I shined it up. It
was in the front. I had lights shining
on it. And then Bob did the old
switcheroooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo.
Came out to California
>> and put his little square. It didn't It
wasn't even gold. It looked silver, you
know, and and then took my gold out to
to Miami and uh it was pretty fun.
>> So, where did he stand currently then?
>> Well, it's in the safe, but Mike Yeah,
Mike had this mint condition gold medal
in the safe. My ribbon was all tattered,
you know, and so I did the switcheroo.
I'm like, "Hey, I want a fresh one." And
he called me like it was like a year
later. He's like, "You son of a [__]
Give me my gold medal back." So, he
hadn't even looked at it. So, anyway, my
my gold medals got some mileage on it. I
I feel like too often
when I'm talking to people about you all
about you two uh I saw the work and the
muscle memory created through practice
you guys get explained away by people
who even know tennis as oh yeah that's
just the that's the twin thing. I'm like
mother [__] it's not the twin they
literally spend eight hour like you'll
hit a great volley go that's the twin
thing. I'm like, I'm sure there's an
element of that and I I want you all to
define what that is in a second because
I find myself wanting to defend the
skill set and work more than kind of
giving credit to just you two in
proximity. Is that is that nuts?
>> We were, as you saw our practices, we
were crazy intense, right? Like we we
really uh pushed each other. We had our
our practices like clockwork. We've done
them so many times since literally like
3 4 years old. We were working on
doubles coming up when guys are mainly
focusing on singles. My dad had us doing
these doubles drills and hitting for the
alleys. And so when we were when we were
out there, we were just moving, moving,
moving. But we were uh practicing like
we wanted to play pretty much like every
shot had a consequence. If I missed a
shot, Bob would like roll his eyes. Like
he expected the best out of me. Held the
bar so damn high. Like we, you know, you
saw our practices. They're they're
pretty intense. there'd be some blowups,
some stuff said. Um, but we were just
holding each other to a to a really high
standard and uh we just wanted to we
wanted to be the best, man. Like we
wanted to play that Davis Cup in the
Olympics and we knew that we had to be
the number one team and uh we really
just we were perfectionists. We hated to
lose and um every day in practice it
felt like we were um playing matches.
Um, so you know that that's that goes
into it, but also the the twin dynamic
and sharing a womb together and and
practicing every day together and being
in the hotel room playing music
together. That whole team chemistry and
twin energy that that felt like when we
were on the court, it was like one blob
of energy. It was like this two-headed
monster. We're moving together, covering
for each other. There was this kind of
unspoken communication where it really
did flow well. we were anticipating. I
could look at Bob's face and know where
he what he was feeling, where he's going
to hit his serve. We didn't really even
speak in between points, right? We just
used a couple code twin language words
and um and we we like to play quick, but
you know, communication was our kind of
our biggest strength, but it could also
be our biggest foe, right? um you know
the sibling tension could sometimes
surface on the practice court sometimes
in matches you know it it would bubble
up you know when you're when you're
playing with your brother in high
pressure moments right you feel like you
can say anything to your bro that you
wouldn't say to a normal partner like I
I wouldn't say that you have a but your
your twin who you know you've shared a
room with forever you share a bank
account with right
the then then things are said that are
that are pretty hurtful. I I know
exactly Bob's weak spots. I know his all
his insecurities and I'll I'll drop a
little bomb and and sometimes it'll
explode. We We played our best when we
didn't say much and we but there were a
few moments where it it did happen and
we're not proud of it, right? We're um
but I think it's it's normal as
brothers. If you're a brother and
especially a twin, you're going to have
these moments. Um, and I worked every
day with my bro and it's it's like
you're going to the office and we're
taking it so seriously. Um, so yeah,
there there there are a few and and I
know we we talked about these in
Charlotte
>> and I know uh you probably brought us on
your podcast to maybe mention a couple
of these moments.
>> Yes. Yes. In no uncertain terms. Yes.
Because this So there there's a couple I
want to just reference and then I would
like uh you all to take it wherever you
want. There was uh a guitar situation in
in in London one time. There was someone
getting knocked out in Australia which I
only learned about like 6 months ago.
And don't spare us details. Uh tell us
kind of when this relationship which on
paper and you guys have always been so
fluent with with with media with you
know you're the first two people out
growing the game every week. Uh you guys
are like, you know, wi without knowing
these moments of stress, you're like a
walking double commercial, right? It's
like this these like you're like a half
polo uh ad half like, you know, you
could sell anything. You could sell, you
know, ice to uh someone in Alaska. Uh
but give it tell us a couple of these
stories.
>> I'll take it back to ' 06. Uh we hadn't
won Wimbledon. The year before we played
Hus Moody in the finals. They were a
qualifier team. On paper, that's a
gimme. They're the only qualifying team
to win Wimbledon. We lost that match.
Two weeks before we lost the Wimbledon
final or the sorry, the French Open
final. We had break points in the third.
Didn't get it done. Show up at
Wimbledon. Uh just kind of being there a
year later after not winning against the
qualifier team. There was some tension.
The monkey was growing on our back. It
was the only one we hadn't won. I said
we're playing first round on a field
court. You know, there's only 20 20
people on this side of the court, 20
people on the other side of the court.
We're in the weeds and we're playing
Jordan Kerr and Air Delic, a fellow
American. We should get this one done in
straits and move on. We're down a break,
two sets to two sets to one and a break
in the fourth, a break in the fifth. We
scrape by. We went 119 in the fifth. A
lot of people would be relieved and
happy.
We were pissed off and we're discussing
the match in the in the transportation
car going back to the Airbnb
and we're both playing Monday morning
quarterback pointing and those those
pointing fingers we turning the shoves
and then now we're swinging at each
other. The cars rocking side to side
>> in the wait in the car and the drive. By
the way, let me set the just let me
don't let me interrupt for too long but
like you have drivers the volunte this a
volunteer position, right? And so maybe
the drive and they're normally like
tennis fans like you know you get
conversation and we they do they do us
such a service every week but imagine
being like oh my god it's going to be
cool the Brian are coming they're the
best doubles team in the world. Okay go
Bob. So this poor lady she's scared for
life. The car is going side to side. Car
is swerving.
Our coach is in the front seat. He's
trying to reach back and break it up.
Anyway we get to the to the house. It's
kind of settled down a little bit. We're
getting our bags out of the car and Mike
[__] slaps me in the face and then
and then he takes off running up the
stairs and I just drop my bag. I'm
running after him.
>> I'm running after him. He grabs the
rails of the stairs and and Mule kicks
me off the stairs into the bushes
>> and I just bounce up like Terminator and
I'm running after him. We run all the
way to the third floor. He locks himself
in the bathroom. I barely miss him. I'm
banging on the door like a like a scene
out of the shining and and
I can't get it I can't get in. So I all
I see is this shiny prized possession is
Taylor guitar and I splintered that
thing. That thing you couldn't take it
to a repair shop and put it back
together. That thing was toast.
>> But the the funny thing is like 5
minutes later we're having dinner. And
that's the freaky thing about twins. We
always say when we see friends, we're
like, those are freaks or twins. We
those are freaks. Because we were having
we're having dinner 5 minutes later and
I actually realized, damn, we share a
bank account. That was guitar was half
mine, you know? So, I just I just blew
up half of my guitar, too. But it
released a little steam like we would
being the number one team, you know,
having those expectations, keeping the
bar high and in everything we did, it
would boil up and and we would let it
out and and we're not proud of it of
sometimes these ways. But we went on to
win the tournament and we played some of
our best tennis because that kind of
locked us back in and we let go of all
that stuff from the year before from the
French Open
and then then it flowed. Um so yeah, I
mean and I know you want to talk about,
you know, the time that one of us was
knocked out. Um no one no one knows that
story. Uh we told it at your charity
event. I think we'd had a couple. I I
wanna I actually wanna I have a followup
and then I want to get to that the
knockout.
>> But Mike, the hit and run is an
interesting play for you because uh
obviously technical volley's return.
You're like a you're like you're like
the Tim Duncan like you everything is
just kind of perfect. You're just in the
position you need to be. You make it
look easier than it is. But speed I'm
going with Bob. Did you think you were
going to get away with a hit and run?
>> I'm looking out for the team. I mean I
knew Bob could have killed me. I saw the
look in his eye and and he was coming at
me like a bull and I had to lock the
door and literally like he was coming
through the door like here come not here
comes Johnny here comes Bobby, right?
The door, right?
Uh but you know it it is weird like we
always knew we were a package deal and
and these fights get like they get
buried pretty quick and we could like we
knew we were always going to stay
together so we would have these blowups
and they they actually led to greater
times greener pastures. if this happened
with like Nolles and Nester or anyone,
you know, they never talk again, right?
But it's just it's funny. And then yeah,
I mean the the one in in 2017, this is
probably uh our biggest of them all and
we've only told this story one time um
and to a few people at your charity
event and so right now we're going live
with it, right? But it was it was kind
of a dark period of our career. We
hadn't won a slam for a couple years. Um
our chemistry our chemistry
>> can you imagine Mike producer Mike can
you imagine not winning a slam for a
couple years
>> what [__] losers
>> like our our chemistry was fractured
right Bob was living in Miami I was in
California um our coach even let us go
like Macker said hey you guys are too
far gone he actually fired us um so
>> come on
>> this is this is after the open when you
know the the hopes of winning the slam
are are gone you're playing indoors you
don't see the sun for for days. We're in
Anworp in a dungeon playing cards. I'm
going through a tough personal life
event. I'm getting I'm getting a
divorce, right? I'm I'm checking my
phone. I'm I'm I'm trying to check for
lawyers. But we're, you know, we're
we're uh we're playing cards. We like to
play cards and we're playing cards. A
dollar a point. Bob's killing me. I you
know, he's VMO me for a thousand bucks
every couple days. And uh he's the
dealer. or I see that he kind of
bottomed me. So, I give him a whack on
the back of the head, right? And and I
did that about I gave him like maybe 10
love taps during that week cuz I I was
stressed, right? And then he looked at
me, he's like, "If you ever do that
again, I'm going to knock you out."
So, yeah. So, fast forward a couple
months, like like Mike said, we're we're
looking for some magic in our careers.
We we hadn't had in a couple years.
We grabbed that Babalot racket that
you're that you're used to. You know,
we're stubborn with this Prince. No
technology on this Prince racket. We
were like, "Hey, we need a little extra
pop." We have the Babalot. We're down in
Australia. We only use it for a week.
We're playing our first round match.
Aussie open back court, a hot day,
windy. Balls are flying. We're playing
two guys we've never heard of. We've
heard of them now, but at the time,
Nishio and Fuvich, we had no clue who
these guys were. And we're losing and
balls are getting away. Anyway, Mike has
some overheads, doesn't put them away,
end up losing the point, and I say,
"Hey, let's put it away next time,
jackass." And and and
he hit me on the back of the head again.
He just he gave me that one of those
taps on the back of the head and I he
was behind me as a reflex. I was
triggered. I just turned and I swung.
>> And more with Bob and Mike. Brian on the
other side.
We're down in Australia. We only use it
for a week. We're playing our first
round match. Aussie open back court. I
didn't know where I was swinging, but I
caught Mike perfect right in the back of
the head. And he dropped like a sack of
potatoes.
>> And I'm like, "Oh god." And I look down.
He's just laying there motionless. And I
give him a couple uh shakes and I don't
get get anything. And then suddenly his
eyes pop wide open like Bob Barker and
he goes, "Congratulations,
you just made Sports Center." And I'm
like, "Uh-oh." And then he he wobbles to
his chair, gets smelling salts, does
this whole song and dance with the
trainer. And um anyway, we got kind of
scared. We're like, "Oh god, that that's
never happened." The crowd was actually
laughing because they thought it was
like a skit, like Monster Barami. And
the only people that weren't laughing
was our coach Macker and and this guy
Dave Marshall. They knew exactly. They
knew the history from Antworp. They knew
what I said to Mike with the card games.
They knew Mike was actually out cold.
And
just like we did, we locked in. We won
the match in three sets. We go back to
the locker room
>> and I'm like, "Hey, Mike, we got to get
our story straight here, man. We're
going into a press conference. We expect
it to be packed. You know, a couple
hundred journalists want to know about
the first time that someone's been
knocked out on a on a grand slam match.
And I'm like, "Hey, let's just get it
straight here. Let's just, you know,
say, "Hey, we faked it." Blah, blah,
blah. Mike's like, "Hey, tell him the
truth, man. Tell them you sucker punched
me." You know, I'm like, "I'm going to
tell him that, you know, you hit me on
the back head. I told you I'd knock you
out." And I did. Anyway, we
we walk slowly to this press conference
and we open the door and there's two
people. It's Bill Simon and no one's no
one even knows about it. Federer was
losing to Sepy on center court. Every
eyeball in that whole site was on
Federer. Um it went unnoticed. I guess
the TV didn't really pick it up. Nadia,
Mike's current wife, was actually
watching her first tennis match at the
time and she was watching it from New
York and she texted my wife Michelle
back in Florida and said, "Uh, what just
happened there?" And Michelle's like,
"You know, don't worry about it. It's I
I get it. Don't worry. I see this every
day." Um, so anyway, you know, the only
guy that actually had footage footage of
this is this guy, Juan Vimeich, one of
our buddies, and he put it to like a
boomerang techno beat and had Mike going
down, caught him back up like a like a
little like a little puppet. Um, but
anyway, like like Wimbledon in ' 06, it
kind of released this tension and at 40
years old, we we kind of went on a
little bit of a a resurgence, you know,
finals Indian Wells, won Miami, won
Monte Carlo, finals of Madrid before I
blew my hip out and we went back to
number one in the world. But it all
started with uh Mike dropping like a
sack of potatoes.
>> Oh my god, these stories are so great.
>> We don't condone violence. Like these
are some these are some these are some
low moments,
but like we never were as close as we've
ever been. Like we we didn't hold any
grudges, but we never we never fractured
like we didn't go back to the locker
room and hey uh Bob knocked me out. We
didn't go talk about this to other
players. You see that
>> during sometimes in losses and tough
matches the players split up. They go to
opposite sides of the locker room and
they start talking behind each other's
back. We never did that. We always sat
right next to each other. Um, we took
our lumps and uh,
>> literally.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Literally. But like we
played thousands of matches together.
It's going to get ugly sometimes because
as much pride as I have in these
stories, uh, cuz I think there the way
that you tell them in this whole twin
thing that you have is like something
that outside looking in is just not
something that anyone can understand. Uh
even if if you could understand the twin
thing, like imagine taking that into
these pressure situations, a lifetime of
work, realizing you're dependent on
someone else. Like it's just the
layering of of what you all have done.
Uh the mental gymnastics uh involved uh
the shared of of of money, houses, uh
like you your personal lives that you
know someone so intimately back. I mean,
it's just like I think it's just a
fascinating uh story and I think these
funny stories kind of give just like a
little glimpse. Um, and frankly, I I
think I I I like them cuz they're
endearing and also it makes you guys
feel like normal, right? Like it's
there's this like excellence, but also
mixed in is like this petulence uh that
we all kind of feel uh sometimes. Um,
when when you all kind of look back at
at the totality of your career, right?
So, winning every major, all the master
series, Olympics, uh, Davis Cup. Um,
what are your kind of biggest pride
points? Either for the other person like
we did it together or is it titles or is
it, you know, consistency? What what are
the kind of the biggest pride prints
where you look back and like what makes
you emotional looking back?
>> We did we played for 23 years together.
Um, and and we did stay together. Yeah,
we had our moments, but we we did it as
a team, as brothers. That's what really
made that that process on the tour
special. Um, you got your best friend on
the road doing it. And and it wasn't
always high moments, right? We had, you
know, I don't know how many grand slam
finals we lost. We We had some really
difficult ones, right?
>> 14
>> 14. It's a lot, right? Um but but we we
we stuck it out. Um Yeah. and just to be
able to now share that um kind of beyond
the court now and just kind of reminisce
and and our I I feel like our
relationship's tighter now than it's
ever been. We got kids. We want them to
all play together. Um but looking back,
we we uh we went really hard and we have
really no regrets just because we didn't
take any vacations. We right after we
came back from the World Tour finals, we
were back working out together in the
gym. we just really professional and um
and just really yeah, we set the bar
really high and we wrote down our goals
every every year and we really went
after him together like kind of had this
shared energy, this shared mission, the
shared focus to do it and and to help
promote doubles cuz I mean doubles was
suffering a little bit during the middle
of our career. So, we wanted to to make
doubles bigger and kind of, you know, uh
have a platform there, but to uh to make
it through the the the meer uh of all
those, you know, uh ups and downs and
kind of the roller coaster and stay
strong with with your twin and and we
have unconditional love uh for each
other. So, uh that's probably what I'm
I'm most proud about.
>> Yeah. Look, I mean that that kind of
summarizes Yeah. our our bond, our
relationship, which is at the end of the
day the most important um that we are
still talking to each other. We we live
on different sides of Florida, but we're
on the phone four times a day. You know,
if I see something cool
at a Heat game, I'm calling Mike, oh
dude, this guy had this dunk, you know.
So, we we still share the spawn. I would
love to see Mike get down to Miami and,
you know, get the band back together
because we've spent millions of hours
jamming together.
But um yeah, and look, I was proud of
Mike when I was injured. I had my hip
replaced, you know. I was proud Mike
went out and he won a couple more slams
with Jack Sock. Yeah, that did that hurt
me to to see him out there having
success without me. For a moment, it
did. It did. It was tough when he was
playing the Wimbledon final on TV. I was
in the gym doing push-ups and um but at
the end of the day, I I was actually
proud of him. you know, that's a Brian
out there representing. And he took me
back. I got my hip replaced and then
five months later, he took me back. He
didn't have to. And, you know, one of my
greatest moments is actually coming back
and defending that Miami Open title in
my in my backyard, you know, with a
metal hip and doing that uh with Mike.
You know, that was that was the one time
I actually got a little misty eyed out
during the trophy ceremony
>> you mentioned. And I I've always thought
you guys were really interesting also
because you kind of become obsessed with
stuff away from the court also. Like as
as as much of a maniac as as Mike is
about everything, he kind of takes that
uh away from the court also. And you you
kind of made a quick reference uh to
your band, but like every single week
ever like you would if you're staying at
the same motel and you're walking down
the hallway, you would hear music coming
from from their room. And it's something
you you guys have become great musicians
and I know Michaela sang the the
national anthem at at the US Open. So
it's weird that you kind of have this
like this like this subj job but you've
trained yourself to be good in even a
different space. It's like you didn't
get enough of each other having to play
off of each other for for paychecks. You
you had to do it in your spare time too
for a long time.
>> Yeah. Music's a huge passion in our
lives. I I feel like you do have a lot
of time on tour. you know, you practice
um and then you have you have a lot of
free hours. So, we felt like that that
secondary passion was was huge for us.
Bob would always bring his keyboard. I
would bring a travel guitar and we'd
have that time in hotel rooms um working
on our chops, you know, and jamming
together. But it all all goes back to my
dad. He was um you know, he he didn't
allow TV in our house, so we had these m
uh instruments in our living room. So,
he taught us how to play, you know, all
the oldie songs growing up. Uh when we
went off to to Stanford, we started like
kind of learning the theory of music a
little bit and and studying it. Uh a lot
of our friends are musicians just
because we love music so much. Um but
yeah, then we started this band thing,
right? And um we had this album out in
in 2008. It u we we had dreams of being
rock stars, too, but um it it never
materialized. We we printed like 10,000
of these CDs yet
>> and they're sitting in they're sitting
in a warehouse in Atlanta right now.
>> I want to comment on that
>> because I was a big part of uh you know
helping write these songs and getting
this out on iTunes and expecting the
dollars to just flow in from these
songs. And there was a decision, how
many albums do you want to print? And
we're like I'm like let's print 10,000
of them. You know, we'll sell them at
the shows and at the tournaments and
they're going to go like hot cakes.
>> Yeah.
>> And eventually we started calling these
things frisbes cuz we just toss them off
the stage.
And then how many t-shirts do you want
to print? Let's print 10,000. And so we
have a warehouse that we're paying for
still to this day holding a bunch of
this junk. So if anyone wants a free
album and a t-shirt, Brian Bros band, uh
it's yours. But
>> we have a couple highlights.
>> We have a couple highlights. We had you
on stage singing Ice Ice Baby um maybe
15 years ago and and you killed that.
That's somewhere on YouTube. And then we
have this one song called Autograph and
we had Novak and Andy Murray rap a verse
on it. Um we actually had Andy Murray
read it. He was on the massage table and
we're like, "Can you just read this?"
And we recorded it. And
>> is that real? I didn't know that part
yet.
We we had him just read the lyrics or
just like, "Hey man, can you just read
this?" I don't even know if he knew we
were going to put it up on iTunes, but
we had Novak do it and the BBC played it
um a few times on the and he just got
roasted. Every talk show would go on. Um
they played as he walked out and it just
followed him. I remember Judy Murray
came up to us and she's like, "What' you
do to my son?" Um what you
>> But but uh yeah, I mean we we uh we love
it. We have this one gig in Indian
Wilds. We we play at the food court. So,
we played at the food court 12 years in
a row and that's our Super Bowl, right?
And and we have these great uh musicians
that that join us. Jim Boios from the
County Crows, James Valentine from Rune
5's helped us out. And uh yeah, so we're
we're still going hard in the studio and
stuff, but yeah. Where where do uh for
for our for our 11 listeners, where
would they be able to find one of those
old Frisbee t-shirts or or download some
of your greatest hits?
>> You cannot find the album or the
t-shirt. Maybe we'll just bring a truck
a truck full to to our next tournament
that we go to, but uh you can you can uh
see our songs on Spotify. And we have I
think 50 monthly listeners on Spotify.
So hopefully this podcast uh increases
that a little bit. But autograph's the
one because we got Jookovic and Murray
to sing this before they became Djokovic
and Murray. Now now these are two of the
greatest players of all time. And so
this might uh this might take off now.
>> All right. I I know we have at least 50
listeners. So I expect all of you if
you're listening to this and you've made
it this far, you have nothing better to
do. You can spend another 12 seconds and
go go listen to uh to the show. Um
>> we'll put a link in the show
descriptions.
>> Click down. Let's double that number.
Uh, I'm not going to take any more of
their time. Uh, Bob and Mike, you know
that I've always appreciated you. Uh,
you're an inspiration to me. Uh, when I
came out, you you won a slam before I
did, and you know, thankfully for you,
you kept winning them uh after
afterwards. But um I I think uh shared
experience is is the is the biggest
source of uh of bond. Obviously, you all
have tons of shared experience, but I've
appreciated uh our shared experience and
and common goal. I know I can say
without a doubt. Uh I would not be a
Davis Cup champion without the two of
you. Uh I hope in at least a smaller
version you feel the same. Um anything
you guys ever need uh you let me know.
Uh you guys are the best. Uh there's
only uh one best doubles team of all
time and you just heard from them.
Thanks Bobby. Thanks Mike. All right.
Welcome back to Served. I hope you
enjoyed listening to the Brian Bros as
much as I have for the last 30 years
that I've known them. Actually more than
that. That's frightening. I met him when
I was, I think, eight or nine years old
at Caswell Tennis Center in Austin,
Texas. Um, great guys. I cannot wait to
be there in person in Newport and uh
show my support for my former teammates.
Uh, the goats of doubles, the best
halfquarters of all time. Uh, Bob and
Mike Bryan. Uh, well, actually, Naverov
and Mackenro might want uh a say in
that, but the best the best half court
team
>> of all time. No doubt. Um, you can't
argue math past a certain point, right?
Uh, okay. So, we should be talking about
Toronto, but it's now this thing that
finishes midweek. Really inconsiderate
for podcasters. I'm sure they took that
into account when they were making the
schedule. I So, I I think we're going to
do like a recap show. Maybe
>> just like a little quick served.
>> Yeah, we should do it after the match,
but when you click on the uh app, it
says TBD, so we don't know what time.
>> All times Eastern TBD. That's what it
says.
>> Super. That makes it great. Um, it'll be
out Friday at the latest Friday morning
as soon as you get up because we'll
we'll run it after probably Thursday
night. Uh, so we're going to try a quick
served episode for a Toronto recap on
Friday because we don't even know when
the hell people are playing finals
anymore at Masters 1000s because we just
keep adding adding weeks to the calendar
and no one knows what the hell is going
on. But anyways, we'll we'll have a
quick served out Toronto recap. Well,
we'll get into the balls and strikes of
that on Friday morning at the latest. Is
that accurate, Mike?
>> That that's accurate. That is correct.
>> Okay. And something else that we are
very excited about uh in the next couple
of weeks, we have the date set, but
release date may be a little bit more
unsettled depending on on uh some moving
parts, but we are going to have Maria
Sherupova on
>> Oh, yeah.
>> on Served. I know. It's going to be so
cool. Uh she's hilarious. She is. I
can't wait for this this conversation.
and also one of the inductees along with
Bob and Mike Bryan. So, we're going uh
kind of full hall of fame into the uh
induction ceremony. Uh and hopefully
we're going to see the best of the Hall
of Fame coming up as opposed to some of
the more recent things that we've seen
with it. Uh I can't wait for the uh I
can't wait for the Sherupova headline. I
cannot wait to be on site at the Hall of
Fame. Uh the museum is magic. Uh and
Mike, we got a bunch of live shows. I
can't keep up. What do we got?
>> Yeah, that's correct. We have the uh the
draw special. Uh we'll be at the US Open
fan week uh on the 21st. Uh 2:00 is when
we're slated to take the stage. Draw
should be out around uh 11 to noon.
We'll we'll try and keep it hidden from
you, Andy. Hasn't been too difficult.
And uh we we'll have fun revealing that
live on the air and then we might even
grab some guests. Who knows? Uh we'll be
on stage for about an hour, hour and a
half uh before you do the Stars event.
And then August 23rd, we will be in
Newport live ahead of the Hall of Fame
induction. Uh we're still sorting out
time exactly. Uh but all the details are
in the show descriptions. Uh super
pumped for that.
>> Wait, so we have a stage? Are we are we
outside of the stadium? Like what is
what where do you know what what is the
stage
>> for us for fan for fan week?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, we're out we're outside of Arthur
Ash Stadium on that stage right outside
the gates.
>> Look at us. right inside fan week.
>> Look at us.
>> Oh, I can't I can't wait. I can't
>> doing live shows.
>> I can't wait to get all my picks wrong
with a live audience. That'll be
different
>> than just doing it in front of you
knuckleheads. Um anyways, that'll be
great. We hope that uh if you can come
see us at a live show, they're probably
some of my favorite shows. Uh heckle us,
talk to us, interact with us. We can't
wait. Uh we feel lucky that anyone's
listening, much less people who will
actually come to live shows. So
appreciate you there. Uh can't wait for
the Maria episode. Quick served for
Toronto will be out Friday morning. Uh
assuming they get that match in. It's
TBD, so hopefully they're not going to
schedule it for like Sunday. I don't
know. Who knows? Um anyways, thanks for
I hope you enjoyed the Brian Brothers
episode. And uh thanks for listening.
Thanks for watching Served. We'll see
you next week.
[Music]
[Applause]